---
uid: 5
layout: publication
title: Ray-aligned Occupancy Map Array for Fast Approximate Ray Tracing
authors: Anonymous authors

publication: To be announced
doi:
paper:
code:
slides:
presentation_slides_video:
supplementary:
supplemental_video:
---

<p style="text-align:center; font-style:italic;">ROMA wasn't built in a day, but in 0.3 milliseconds!</p>

## Abstract

We present a new software ray tracing solution that efficiently computes visibilities in dynamic scenes. We first introduce a novel scene representation: ray-aligned occupancy map array (ROMA) that is generated by rasterizing the dynamic scene once per frame. Our key contribution is a fast and low-divergence tracing method computing visibilities in constant time, without constructing and traversing the traditional intersection acceleration data structures such as BVH. To further improve accuracy and reduce aliasing, we use a spatiotemporal scheme to stochastically distribute the candidate ray samples. We demonstrate the practicality of our method by integrating it into a modern real-time renderer and showing better performance compared to existing techniques based on distance fields (DFs). Our method is free of the typical artifacts caused by incomplete scene information, and is about 2.5x--10x faster than generating and tracing DFs at the same resolution and equal storage.

---

## What is ROMA?

ROMA (Ray-aligned Occupancy Map Array) is a ray tracing alternative, which is fast to build and fast to trace: building ROMA only requires one pass of rasterization; tracing ray against ROMA only takes O(1) time, without any hierarchical traversal (as opposed to Hardware Ray Tracing) and without iterations (as opposed to Distance Fields).

---

## Why do we need ROMA?

Hardware Ray Tracing builds fast, traces fast, but requires specific hardwares. Distance Fields traces fast, but builds prohibitively slow (3.31ms at 128^3 resolution); this is why Distance Fields are limited to static objects.

---

## What is the idea of ROMA?


## How does ROMA work?





<!-- ## Downloads -->

<!-- TBA. -->

<!-- [Paper (23MB)]({{page.paper}}){: .btn .btn--primary} -->
<!-- [Supplementary (22MB)]({{page.supplemental_video}}){: .btn .btn--primary} -->

<!-- ## Cite -->

<!-- ## Copyright Disclaimer -->

<!-- © The Author(s). This is the author’s version of the work. It is posted here for your personal use. Not forredistribution. The definitive Version of Record is available at <a href="{{page.doi}}">DOI</a>. -->
